# S3: Simple Storage Service

S3 (Simple Storage Service) is one of the fundamental features of AWS. It is, simply put, a place where you can store files.

S3 is object based with unlimited storage. Files can be between 0 bytes to 5tb.

Buckets has a universal namespaces. This means that the bucket names need to be unique. Also an AWS requirement is that it needs to be all lowercase.

Example: [https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/acloudguru](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/acloudguru)

Each bucket created has a website address or DNS address that we can connect to. If the name is taken, it cannot be readded.

Example: s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/acloudguru

Uploading a file successfully to a bucket will give you HTTP 200 code.

Features:

- 99.99% availability
  - Technically it's 11x9s duability, i.e. 99.999999999% availability
- Versioning available
- Tiered storage available
- Encryption available

S3 is object based. It is a key-value store.

- Key (the name of the object)
- Value (the data that is made up of a sequence of bytes)
- Version ID
- Metadata, data about data we're storing.
- Subresources: access control lists (who can access), torrent

## Uploading and Updating

**Important:** S3 has Read after Write consistency for new PUTS objects. This means that newly uploaded files will appear immediately.

If you overwrite a file (i.e. update or delete), it will take longer to perform the action due to files being in different regions. It could take a minute or so. This is because the consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES takes some time to propogate.

S3 designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently. No retrieval fee.

S3 Types

- S3 - IA (infrequently accessed), low access, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower fee, but charged on retrievals.
- S3 One Zone - IA (infrequently accessed): lower cost for infrequently accessed data, but does not require the multiple AZ data resilience.
- Glacier: cheap for archival, retrieval takes 3-5 hours. Bulk: 5-12 hours.

Charged for storage (per GB), requests (1,000 requests per minute), storage management price, data transfer pricing (from one region to another), transfer acceleration (fast and safe transfer over long distances)

## Cross Region Replication

- Versioning must be enabled on both the source and destination buckets.
- Regions must be unique.
- Files in an existing bucket are not replicated automatically. All subsequent updated files will ne replicated automatically.
- You cannot replicate to multiple buckets or use daisy chaining.
- Delete markers are replicated.
- Deleting individual versions or delete markers will not be replicated.
- Understand what cross region replication is at a high level.

Securing buckets:

- All newly created buckets are private.
- Setup access control using:
  - Bucket policies
  - Access control lists
- Buckets can be configured to create access logs.

Encryption:

- In transit: send information to and from your bucket. SSL/TLS, has to use HTTPS.
- At rest:
  - Server side encryption
    - S3 managed keys: SSE-S3. Amazon manages this, 256 bit. Each object encrypted with a unique key.
    - AWS Key management service, managed keys: SSE-KMS, audit trail of when keys are used and by who.
    - Server side encryption with customer provided keys: SSE-C
  - Client side encryption: you encrypt the data yourself and then upload.

Network File System mount point

- File gateway: for flat files, stored directly on S3. Examples include PDFs, Word, etc. This does not store the OS and databases.
- Volume Gateway: Use when you need block based storage to store OS and database.
  - Stored volumes: entire dataset is stored on site and is asynchronously backed up to S3. Good for connectivity issues.
  - Cached volumes: entire dataset is stored on S3 and the most frequently accessed data is cached on site.
- Gateway Virtual Tape Library (VTL)
  - Used for backup and uses popular backup applications like NetBackup, Backup Exec, Veeam, etc.

## Snowball

- Snowball: 80tb, only storage.
- Snowball Edge: 100tb, like it's own AWS datacenter. Includes computing. S3, Lambda, etc.
- Snowmobile: ReInvent 2016, huge truck 45-foot long, exabyte, 100PB per truck. Super huge amounts of data.

All types of Snowball can be imported to S3, and exported from S3.

Before Snowball existed, it was known as Import Export. People would send in their own hard drive disks, which ended up being problematic, unable to scale, and inconsistent. It was eventually replaced with Snowball.

## S3 Transfer Acceleration

S3 Transfer Accelartion utilizes the CloudFront Edge Network to accelerate uploads to S3. Instead of uploading directly to your S3 bucket, you can use a distinct URL to upload directly to an edge location which will then transfer that file to S3. You will get a distinct URL to upload to:

acloudguru.s3-accelerate.amazonaws.com

Edge location: You can clear your cached objects, but you will be charged.

Static websites are serverless, static only, and very cheap. The URL is always:

[[bucket name].s3-website-[region name].amazonaws.com](#)

You can load files to S3 faster by enabling multipart upload.

Also make sure to read the S3 FAQ before taking the exam.
